Dear Poshak,

Thank you for the congratulations and the lovely picture! I have been reading
through the project proposal and have taken some notes and have some additional
questions.

The Project
-----------
The project is a collaboration between the University of Southampton and The
University of York and facilitated by the STFC Air Quality Network (SAQN).

The proposal suggests to use rapid time-series techniques that have been
developed in astronomy for possible use in high frequency air pollution data
available in 1-second to 1-minute intervals. The analysis of high resolution
time series remains under-exploited in the field, and so this analysis could
provide novel insights.

The aim of the project is to develop three work packages over the course of 8
months, with the ultimate aim of publishing in an air pollution journal at the
end of the first two projects.

    - WP 1 : Identifying patterns against background variability using cross-correlation techniques
    - WP 2 : Identifying novel periodicities in the data using Fourier techniques
    - WP 3 : Communication on how these techniques can be used for policy development

Work projects 1 & 2 are expected to take ~4 Months each with the intention of
publishing within that timeframe, WP3 is to be undertaken concurrently with 1 & 2.

You have said that the official start date for the project would likely be October
but I would be completely fine to start ASAP.


Overview of secondee’s background and suitability to project
------------------------------------------------------------

I have experience working with time series across a wide range of different
fields and timescales. In astronomy, I have worked on the multiwavelength
analysis of unevenly sampled month-timescale light curves of ULXs with cadence
of days to identify correlated patterns of behaviour. I have also worked with
much higher resolution data, working with individual photon time-of-arrival
data using NuSTAR to search for pulsations in several sources.

I worked at a condition monitoring company called Senseye for three months in
2019 and worked on the analysis of high resolution sensor data and used applied
forecasting procedures to uncover seasonalities in the data
https://facebook.github.io/prophet/

I have also worked for Shell, where I have used machine learning techniques to
predict the power output of from multivariate time series sampled in 5-minute
intervals. 

I am familiar with creating Python packages, documenting code and using GitHub
for development.


Travel & Supervision
--------------------

It is absolutely no problem for me to travel to Southampton a few times a month
to meet in person, I have plenty of friends who still live there and are
willing to lend me a spare room. I have a full working desk setup currently at
my home in London and I can bring my laptop in for meetings.

I also see that there are plans to visit the SAQN in York for 3 days to meet
the rest of the team, this of course is no problem, but I was curious to know
at which stage of the process this would likely be?

Questions
---------
What would happen to the project if I were to have to stop before the end of
the 8 month period?
    - I have heard back from Natalie Webb and will be having an interview over
      zoom on the 21-22nd of August for the position. In the event that I am
      successful it would start be starting as early as starting as early as
      November 2023. 

What would be your preferred frequency for the in person meetings? 

How much would the pay be, and would the salary be paid on a monthly basis?
    - I have had a through the document but this figure appears to have alluded me.


Kind Regards,
Norman

Team
----
Prof. Poshak Gandhi https://www.southampton.ac.uk/people/5xd2nb/professor-poshak-gandhi
Dr. Sarah Moller    https://www.york.ac.uk/chemistry/staff/academic/h-n/smoller/
Prof. David Carslaw https://www.york.ac.uk/chemistry/staff/academic/a-c/dcarslaw/
Fleur Hughes        https://www.ukri.org/news-and-events/101-jobs-that-change-the-world/fleur-hughes/

Links
-----
Wolfson Atmospheric Chemistry Laboratories : https://www.york.ac.uk/chemistry/research/wacl/
